README
Created Sun Aug 13 17:36:37 AKDT 2017
Copyright (C) 2017 by Raymond E. Marcil <marcilr@gmail.com>


Filelist
========
bearing.html
  In the perfect environment the HMC2003 magnetic sensor would not be
  affected by outside sources.  However the steel protoboard on which
  the sensor resides and circuitry affect the output of the sensor.
  Per the Honeywell application note Applications of Magnetoresitive
  Sensors in Navigation Systems.[1]  I was able to compensate for the
  affects of the ferrous protoboard and circuitry.

circular/
  In some applications which require incoming data to be processed serially and data may come
  in before the microcontroller can devote the cycles to processing it, the incoming data has
  to be "buffered" (saved) for some period of time.  Ideally, the algorithms used for saving
  and retrieving this data, as well as maintaining the buffer should be as simple and fast
  executing as possible.  Like most problems, there are many ways of solving it, with one of
  the best being the "circular buffer".

  A circular buffer is a memory area that has been set aside for an index to store data and
  another index to retrieve the data.  Once an index has reached the end of the buffer, it
  is reset to the start of the buffer.  In this way, the buffer is "circular" in that it
  never ends.

dispatcher/
  Central Dispatcher
  Commands can be issued to the compass via the serial port.  Whenever the serial interrupt
  handler receives a carriage return the command flag is set indicating a command has been
  recieved.  Subsequently when main event loop finds the command flag set the central dispatcher
  is called to process the command.  In this way the interrupt handling is able to communicat
  with the main event loop.  The dispatcher gets the command from the input buffer and scans a
  jump table for the command.  If the command is found the routine is jumped te in an entry in
  the jump table, then test the specific command.ble during developement.  I was able to code up
  test routines code in an entry in the jump table, then test the specific command.

  There wasn't much information available on coding up a dispatcher for the 8052 available.
  I did find Peter Norton's Assembly Language Book for the IBM PC useful.  Particularly the
  dispatcher section section, pages 218-222, while this book is 8088 specific it did serve of
  as a basic concept guide.

graphics/
  Graphics Routines

i2c
  I2C 2-wire Interface
  I haven't actually implemented any I2C devices on the digital compass but it looked
  promising for some type of devices, particularly the serial non-voltile RAMS and EEPROMs.
  The information here is for my own referencence.  The I2C interface is a simple 2-wire bus
  that allows specialized IC's like a/d converters, digital potenciometers, serial eeproms,
  etc. to be connected to computers and microcontrollers.

int/
  The digital compass is interrupt driven.  The AT89C52 microcontroller has several vectored
  interrupt handlers that process routine events.  One thing that confused me when I was first
  writing interrupt routines was how to ensure that resources, like the circular buffers, are
  not accessed simultaneous by different routines.  This sounds simple and the solution pretty
  easy.  The trick is to use mutexes, single bit flags that indicate a resource is being used.
  In this way routines can set a mutex bit to lock a resource so the interrupt handlers know
  that a particular resource is in use and should return control to the main program before
  trying to process the interrupt.

io/
math/
memmap/
misc/

pdf/
  Portable Document Files

pics/
  Pictures

raymon/
sfr/
timer/
circular/

Links
=====
[1] Applications of Magnetoresitive Sensors in Navigation Systems
    pdf/sae.pdf
